I think of my friends and the ones that I knew pretty well, but it was kind of a combination, but I would say more of them were for some small.
When I gave up basketball and moved over to the quad and joined Squadron 11 over there, the guys that I remember, a lot of them were from rural areas, small towns, but all around.
I met one or two from out of state, but, you know, that was kind of the exception.
Blue collar, white collar?
I would say a lot, again, most of these small town folks, I don't know if you'd call them blue collar, but they weren't from upper class, economically anyways, upper class families, good people, but some of them were from farms and ranches and some of them were pretty well fixed too, I know that.
Clayton Williams was a classmate of mine and I never will forget.
When we came here, they registered.
We were all the ag guys.
They give you a block schedule as the first year freshman, as a first semester freshman.
We got, we were in the block of students.
And you had the same schedule that they did.
Well, I was in the same block with Clayton Williams.
And I remember we took Math 101 together.
And, you know, this guy, I remember him very well.
He'd sit there and he'd ask the dumbest questions I've ever heard.
But I figured it out.
Clayton that did this, he was clever the way he would do this.
But he could...
get his point across and he'd make a point in the class asking, you know, what appeared to be a pretty dumb question.
I say dumb, that's not the right word, but he was quick to ask a question and kind of pretend like he didn't know it.
He was a lot smarter than he pretended, I thought.
Good sharp guy, but I did have, I had a block schedule with Clayton and we've been friends since then.
Were you all aware of his father's ranching interest?
No.
I knew that he was from ranching background.
That's what kind of led me to this, that, you know, there were some of these kids that may have been from small rural places, but they had pretty good farms and ranches back there.
What was the general attitude about work in those days?
Oh, I think, you know, everybody accepted it pretty well.
It was a strong work ethic.
I didn't get to really finish that question you asked me about the general attitude and all.
I'm sorry I didn't, I kind of got straight off there.
You know, it varied, but again, a lot of them from small towns.
Of course, I was in ag.
Now, that's another thing that influenced me.
See, I wasn't over there with the engineers and all to start with, but my contacts were ag guys and farm boys mainly because that's where my schedule was and who I saw in class and got to know better.
So that may be a little bit off the mark.
But most of them,
or were there some Hispanics?
There were some Hispanics.
I roomed with a Hispanic, a fellow from Brownsville.
And how was he and the other Hispanics, how were they treated in that era?
I don't remember any problem whatsoever.
You know, we didn't think about them being
another ethnic or nationality, and we just didn't, you know, it never occurred to me.
We, we, they were fully accepted, and I don't remember any problem at all from that standpoint.
He just had a Hispanic-sounding name is all I knew.
This one fellow that was my roommate there one semester in our hall, I guess it was a spring semester, but he waited tables in the dining hall.
I remember that up at Cebisa.
And he was not a very good student and didn't seem too committed to college.
And on Saturday night, he'd have these poker games in the room.
He'd invite some of his friends in, and they'd play poker until Sunday morning breakfast time.
I mean, play all night long.
And a lot of them smoked.
That was another thing.
Seemed like everybody got into smoking pretty quickly.
The pressure and the stress of college and something about being more mature and all, a lot of people took up smoking.
But they were smoking and, you know, I'd, about midnight or one o'clock, I'd crawl up in the rack, try to go to sleep on Saturday night.
We didn't have any study hall or anything then.
But they'd play that, play poker all night.
But, you know, I think he posted about a zero-zero and end of the semester he was gone.
the let's see were there some catholics and protestants yes jewish i remember some of the religious uh organizations they all seem to have active groups and that was kind of interesting to me too because i'd come from a place where either baptist or methodist it seemed and you know i didn't know many others but uh here you know i saw
people from all faiths.
And I don't remember any problems, really, with that.
Did you participate in any of the religious organizations?
Well, I went to church over here at Northgate.
Which one?
The First Baptist Church over there.
Describe that church, that congregation then, as you... As I remember it, it had a lot of college kids there and a lot of university-related churches.
Older people.
Seemed like Cliff Randstill was there, one of them, I remember.
But it was very college-oriented group.
Did you go on Sunday night to the BSU?
No, I didn't get involved with the BSU then.
I don't know, I guess I just didn't feel that I had time then, but basketball was a long season in spring practice and we had those long practices.
We'd go over, it seemed like we'd start suiting up about 5 or 5.30.
No, before that I guess, but we would, during season, we'd have a two hour, two and a half hour practice.
And we wouldn't eat during season.
We would go to Sibisa and eat.
I was eating on the training table, they called it.
And I was over here special.
And you got steaks and the best food that they could put out there.
When you were on, when your sport was in season and you were on the training table.
Now, we didn't do that except right during the actual season.
Was there anything else that you were aware of that was done specially for athletes?
Were there any special classes that you knew?
No.
Don't remember anything.
The athletes were...
of a different group, I would say, in those days.
There were some guys in there that were brilliant, smart.
I never will forget some of them.
I remember the guys from El Campo, Glenn Lippman, Elo, Noavitsa, Yarrow and a Tardis.
Three guys, class of 52, all came out of El Campo, all great football players.
Glenn Lippman was
one of the greatest in texas high school sports but they were all gerald notardis supposedly was a valedictorian in the class of 52. brilliant guy and you didn't hear anything about anybody slipping them any money or no the only thing i remember is if you were a varsity athlete a football player i believe you got two tickets
And you could, some of them sold those tickets.
Now, tickets were... Supposedly for their parents, but they can... But there were no rules I'm aware of that said you couldn't sell those tickets.
But frankly, there was no huge demand for them in those days.
So, you know, they weren't going to get any big value for them.
But I think some of them did sell their tickets.
But I believe they got, it's either two or four.
Two, I believe.
Two free tickets.
And they lived in...
in the Hart Hall.
They lived down on kind of the south half of Hart Hall.
And did they have big fancy new cars?
I don't remember.
Some of them had a car, but most of us did not have a car.
Some did, but, you know, I can remember a lot of the football players.
Now, there are one or two off the record here that I can say that, you know, were kind of bums, if you would, that didn't seem to have too high standards.
You know, seemed to play pool all the time and, you know, but there were a few of those.
But by and large, the athletes that I remember were good people, good students.
I could just tick off a lot of them.
Bobby Ragsdale, Reba's husband.
Bobby was one class ahead of me, lived over there not far from me in Hart Hall.
Good man.
Ph.D.
soil conservation work and all that.
I could say Ralph Ellis, the swimmer, was Jude and Herring.
I could go down a list.
A bunch of them were good people.
But even on the football team, there was a lot of good folks there.
Charlie Sachs, the guy I know played in.
He had a boy come through the Corps since I was here.
But, you know, he's a veterinarian, I believe.
But, you know, they went all directions.
But I don't remember.
It's just a totally different thing today than what it was then.
And they didn't have professional sports that most of these folks are struggling and, you know, hardly anybody talked about going professional sports.
Buddy Davis did go to basketball.
But Yale Larry was a football player.
He was a punter and a halfback and a baseball player.
Yale played professionally, but not many of them did that.
But like Darrell Hooper.
shot putter.
He set the records before Randy came here, but he was one of the most admired fellows we had.
He married a little high school sweetheart.
I think she's about 17 or 18, and boy, they were just a darling couple here on campus.
But, you know, lots of good folks over there, in my opinion.
The activities that pulled people together in those days, was Reveille, was the original Reveille still alive?
I don't believe so.
But the Reveille of that era you saw, that dog was around a lot?
I don't remember it a lot.
Really?
I really don't.
It's not the tradition that it is today.
Did you, do you remember going to your first Silver Taps?
Oh, I remember doing that the first time, but I don't, you know, I can't tell you exactly when it was.
It was a, you know, I'd heard this tradition and it was something special and, of course, I lived right there close by where we had it and, you know, we always turned out the lights and went over there.
Did everybody take it seriously?
Uh,
I would say so.
I don't remember any problems or anyone questioning it, but I think it's become more entrenched over the years.
It's better known, and a lot of these things were not all that well known.
Elephant walk is a perfect example.
We thought that was the most ridiculous thing we'd ever seen.
I didn't go out there and do all that dancing around, but I really hadn't heard much about it, and there was really not much priority thought about it.
And just whatever day it was, they'd get out there and kind of snake around a little bit, but it didn't amount to anything.
A couple of parents asked me the other day, where did it originate?
And I said, I have no idea.
Why did it originate?
I said, I have no idea.
I said, I think some students just kind of thought it up.
But Silver Taps, during your era, was held...
about where it is today, is that right?
I believe it, that's what I remember.
And as far as you recall, when Silver Taps was over, people silently went back to their room?
Yes.
But, you know, we didn't have nearly as many students then, and Silver Taps was more of a special thing.
Now, nowadays, you know, it's every month, it seems.
But, you know, it was kind of a rare occasion in those days.
Do you remember muster during your student day?
Mm-hmm.
Where was it held?
Steps of the Y?
I believe so, yes.
You know, we didn't have any read or read or anything close to that in those days.
I believe it was on the Y, at the Y. In your student days, did some World War II veterans occasionally show up on campus and talk about what it had been like in Europe or Bataan?
Did y'all hear many World War II stories from ags?
I don't remember much of that.
And then when the Korean War is over, you're about to leave, so.
You know, there were a good many World War II students on campus then.
But, you know, we didn't have a lot of contact with them.
We just didn't cross paths that much.
And they weren't old enough yet to start reminiscing as much as they were.
I just don't remember much of that.
Not that, you know, through our military science classes and all, I'm sure we heard stories.
I know we did, but I don't remember much of that.
As far as you were aware, the most prestigious student leadership positions were what?
If you could have held any position on campus as a student, what would have been the top task?
Corps commander?
Absolutely.
That was the one position that
that we held in highest esteem.
There's no question in my mind, but, you know, I'm over here in this thing and I'm, you know, my time is so consumed that I didn't have time to do some of these other things.
As far as you and your buddies were aware, was the Corps commander selected in a fair...
You know, I didn't even know how he was selected, to be honest with you.
I didn't know.
I know those fellows during my time, and, you know, I still know them today very well.
You know, people that I think were excellent role models and did a good job in the Corps.
You know, Fred Mitchell was the Corps commander in my senior year, and, you know, I've visited with Fred a number of times.
I've had him over here some, and I've heard him explain how he got selected.
It was kind of a tight thing between him and somebody else.
He explained to me, you know, and they finally had the vote.
You know, as a cadet, we don't know that.
You go down here today, a lot of these cadets can't tell you.
I have a grandniece that's going to be a senior in the Corps this year, and she's my feedback.
And it's so interesting, and I learned that when I was commandant.
You sit down with these kids and just listen, you can learn more stuff.
but it's interesting how little they know about certain things and how rumors spread and they're so misled about certain things about things that are going to happen and what did happen a lot of times they're totally off base but they're occupied with their studies and surviving in their little world and they all know all these things but i i can't tell you how they were selected then i assumed it was all fair and the head bull probably blessed that and uh
But, you know, we never, I don't know anyone that expressed any doubts about these folks, whether they were qualified or unhappy that they were put in the job, but it was a very respected job.
And then yell leaders?
Yell leaders was a very visible, very... What did you and your buddies think about the band?
Oh, there was always that little put down of the band, friendly rivalry and stuff.
You know, that's continued on and gotten worse, if anything, I think.
Was there even a student body president in that era?
Yes, there was.
They had a, well, I say student body, I don't know.
Maybe we didn't.
We had class officers.
I don't remember a student body president.
I remember class officers.
I remember who some of them were, you know, in my time, but I don't believe, well, I could be wrong, but I can't remember a student body president.
You know, the student senate would come along, and some folks got into that pretty good.
We had the hometown clubs in.
That was a strong... Did you all have an Abilene club?
Absolutely.
What was the purpose of the Abilene club?
Well, it's just...
kind of give you a group that you have some common bond with that you can get together and feel comfortable and kind of help as a freshman particularly.
You know, your Abilene buddies are going to be nice to you.
And they were.
And also to get rides home.
To help coordinate things like that.
It's just a little network there.
But, you know, we didn't do anything a whole lot together.
But, you know, our pictures were big time in the annuals.
You go back and look.
And hometown clubs were pretty important in those days.
And there was a link with mother's clubs and all that.
And I've always assumed it was another place to turn if you needed help.
Yes.
Advice or money or whatever, you might turn to somebody that could be of assistance.
I would say that that hometown club was a comfort zone for you, especially the first year or two.
Were you and your buddies aware of the existence of secret fraternities?
You know, my senior year, 54,
There was a little flare up there toward the end and I never understood all of that.
And some of my buddies in my class were dismissed and weren't commissioned initially and all because of
Secret fraternities.
And, you know, I heard about it, the TTs and all this.
I used to hear little stories around the quad and all.
And, you know, I never knew if that was true or not.
So I really didn't know a whole lot, but I've gone back and checked a lot of that since I came back to A&M.
And most of the history happened right as I was leaving and just after I was leaving.
So I was gone and wasn't...
that familiar with some of the things that were going on.
What about tunnels?
Did you ever go into a steam tunnel?
I never went in one.
I heard a lot of stories about them.
Like, you know, it was a great secret.
I could talk a little bit perhaps off the record about the fraternities and all here.
I didn't think maybe we, I didn't want to get pinned down too much on any of this.
When you were an undergraduate here, what were the student indulgences?
What did students eat, drink, smoke, and so forth?
Well... There were beer parties, weren't there?
There, absolutely.
Where?
They had them...
Out at the pits.
See, what do they call them?
The clay pits, I believe it was.
They had the outfit beer parties and units and groups that have parties at the clay pits.
I believe that's what they called them.
But there were a lot of those, but they'd go off campus.
I don't remember, you know, drinking in the dorms and all that back in those days.
It may have been against the rules then to drink on campus.
I just don't remember it.
When I came back to A&M, I was a little shocked to see that
hey, you know, these folks got, if you're of age, you can have it in your dorms.
Did, in your day, did, as far as you were aware, did folks hide beer or whiskey in the room?
I'm sure they did some, but I didn't see much of that.
Where were the places around in the campus neighborhood where students could go and drink?
Was Uncle Ed still going?
Hard liquors?
I don't remember.
Hard liquors, yeah.
Down the Welburn Road.
Yes.
Brenham was a place a lot of people talked about going.
Of course, they had the— Whiskey Bridge.
Whiskey Bridge.
I hear them talk about that a lot.
It seemed like, you know, we were a dry community then, as I recall, and, you know, it wasn't as easy to— For whiskey, I think it was.
Yeah.
And smoking, what did people smoke?
Oh, Camels, Lucky Strikes, Chesterfield.
And did people smoke in, they did smoke in their rooms?
I believe so.
Could a cadet... Oh, yes, they smoked in a room.
I remember the party, the gambling all night, and they'd smoke.
Could a cadet, under core regulations, could a cadet carry a pack of cigarettes in his shirt pocket when he was walking down the sidewalk?
I don't remember seeing that.
I guess not.
I don't ever remember seeing that.
And cigars were kind of a... Macho, manly thing.
A special.
Football games and special occasions.
And did anybody smoke a pipe?
Any students?
Oh, I'm sure there might have been a few, but I don't recall.
Chewing tobacco or snuff?
Chewing tobacco or some of that.
Maybe not as much as we see today.
People carry that little can in their pocket.
A lot of the farm boys and others, bonfire kids do that.
Did you and your buddies even know the terminology of drugs?
Did you know the word heroin?
I'd heard of this term marijuana.
And people, as a joke, said, man, he must have been smoking marijuana.
And, you know, I didn't even know what that was.
But I'd heard that term.
But heroin, I can't say that I heard that term.
Yeah, I sure hadn't in those years.
But marijuana, you know, there was certainly no drug culture.
And for you and your buddies, before you met this special young lady from Hamilton, where did you all get dates?
Through friends.
Some folks had dates up at TSCW.
They, you know, that was the big story.
They were kind of our sister school and, you know, if you really needed a date, well, you could probably figure out some way that somebody would help you get a date up at TSCW.
Did you ever write a letter to a blind date up there?
No.
Because I've heard it was done by... I've heard of that, but I never did that.
But a fair number of folks did strike up acquaintances with girls up at TSCW.
When girls came here for a social event, an outfit dance or a ring dance, how were they treated?
Oh, very well.
Extremely well.
They were very honored guests.
But, you know, walking around here during the week, you didn't even see a girl.
And one little hitchhike back on earlier question, you know, what was it, what are they thinking, attitudes and all of that.
You know, a lot of the folks weren't very happy here.
I think it was because it was an isolated place, no girls.
They used to kind of talk about, man, it sure would be nice.
We were over there at Dallas or Houston.
But it's a big detraction.
You just have all males like this.
You just see girls on special occasions.
People, you know, I don't hear it today, but back in those days, a lot of people seemed to be kind of critical of the environment.
And maybe they were longing for what came along later.
But now you and your buddies didn't talk about the admission of women as students, did you?
No, never.
You know, we just assumed this is the way it is.
What did you and your friends, if you wanted to go out in the community for anything special, what did you all do for amusement on a Saturday night?
Oh, go down to Bryan, go to the movie, or go over to Northgate and go to a movie.
Maybe go get a hammer, go at the drive-in, the old Triangle drive-in up there.
It was a big social place.
But, you know, go around and drive around the streets of Bryan, and maybe somebody say, let's go to the Midnight Show.
But there wasn't a whole lot to do.
And were there Guy in Hall movies regularly?
Guy in Hall movies.
Did Aggies make noise doing Guy in Hall movies?
I don't remember going to many movies over there.
I don't know.
I just don't have time.
What about at the campus?
Did Aggies make noise during the movie?
I can't remember anything particularly about it.
Was there, and where was the best place to get a hamburger?
Well, I remember going to the drive-ins mainly for things like that.
It seemed like there was one here and there was one in Bryan, but the Triangle drive-in was kind of the in thing.
There weren't many eating places around here.
I just can't remember much.
And you didn't have an unlimited expense account?
No.
I didn't miss many meals in the dining hall.
But you went to the football games.
Did you make almost every Corps trip?
Oh, yeah.
Athletes, you know, lived over there together, but we were a military organization.
And, you know, we did the same things and all that the rest of the Corps did except
When our sport was in season, we had to practice together and we got to eat together and do those things.
But, you know, we marched at the parades and final review and we did all those things.
Did the other outfits kind of sneer at y'all as not being really military?
Well, I think there was some feeling that, you know, we got off light on some things and, you know, we had some perks and privileges there.
Did they have a nickname for y'all?
I don't remember anything.
Did your outfit have a nickname at all?
Just Biggie Company Athletics is all I remember.
And then you moved over to the Air Force.
Yes.
And what outfit was that?
Squadron 11.
And what was it like to move to a new squadron that you had not grown up with?
Well, you know, I found that they seemed very receptive to my coming, much more than they would today.
This is when you're a junior?
Just first of my junior year.
Maybe the end of my sophomore, I see.
I forget when he was.
Maybe the end of the sophomore year.
But I got started over there.
But I was, I didn't have any trouble, you know, a lot of the guys were gone to class with and knew and it worked out fine.
And I could have had a, you know, a major position in the Corps, except I got married.
So that was something I, because I had to move to a day student unit then, which kind of changed things up.
But again, I know Corps commanders that were married in those days.
Oh, Bill High, class of 60, he was married his whole year.
His wife stayed in San Antonio.
Mm-hmm.
As we're heading toward the end now, I want to try to think about the activities and the attitudes that are kind of special about A&M.
Silver taps, muster, midnight yell practice,
When you, do you remember being a part of final review the first time?
Mm-hmm.
What does a fish feel like during its first final?
Well, it's a great load off your shoulders, a great relief, I would say, and some feeling of pride and accomplishment like I've made it.
You know, I've proven myself I can stay.
You know, I'm better for it.
Did you kind of mentally think about what the survival rate was?
Some were gone and... You know, you reflect back and a lot of them didn't stay.
A lot of that hasn't changed.
A lot of people still leave.
Back to yell practice, one thing was different.
We had yell practice at the Grove, mainly, and it seemed like it was every Tuesday night or Thursday night.
I don't remember.
Were there, did they tell fables then?
Oh, yes.
I remember Pinky Downs and coming over from, we loved Pinky Downs.
But boy, he could get the crowd going.
But he'd come to yell practice sometime, especially around bonfire time.
That's another subject we'd talk about is a bonfire back in those days.
Yeah.
Talk about a bonfire.
Very small.
Even though I was in Hart Hall in athletics, we had to take our term guarding the bonfire and all that stuff.
And it was over on the drill field there, which is just right across the way.
It's so close.